# initIOC

Script for generating camera IOCs from the [ioc-template](https://github.com/epicsNSLS2-deploy/ioc-template).

### Usage

This script is intended for rapidly initializing IOCs for new detectors en-mass. To use the script, you will need to edit the `CONFIGURE` file in this directory. Within this file there is a table with several example IOCs included.
```
# IOC Type    IOC Name      AsynPort      IOC Port     Cam Connection
#-------------------------------------------------------------------
ADUVC         cam-uvc        UVC1           4000          25344
ADProsilica   cam-ps1        PS1            4001       EX.AM.PLE.IP
ADAndor3      cam-andor3     AD3            4002       /exam/ple/path
```
This table contains all of the IOCs that will be autogenerated by the script. Please follow these rules when adding IOCs to the table:

Parameter | Description
--------|------------------
IOC Type | Should be the same as its areaDetector repository name. `ADProsilica`, `ADPointGrey` etc. Note that `AD` must be at the start of this parameter
IOC Name | Name of the IOC to be deployed. Usually `cam-` followed by a camera type and number. ex `cam-uvc1`
Asyn Port | Name of the asyn port to which the NDArrays from the driver will be piped. Usually an all-caps shorthand of the driver name followed by a number
IOC Port | The telnet port that the IOC will run on when started by procServer
Cam Connection | A general parameter for whatever connection format the camera uses. Can be serial number, config path, IP etc.

Other configuration options that are found in `CONFIGURE` include:  

Option | Description
---------|--------
IOC_DIR | Location for iocs on the server. Usually `/epics/iocs`
TOP_BINARY_DIR | Location of compiled epics base and support
ENGINEER | The engineer deploying the IOC
PREFIX | IOC PV Prefix for the camera. - Note that the script will attempt to autoassign a unique portion of the prefix
HOSTNAME | Hostname of server on which the IOC is located
CA_ADDRESS | The channel access address list IP

Once all of these configuration options are set and the IOCs are added to the table, simply run
```
./initIOCs.py
```
in the top level of this directory. **(Note that python3 is required for the script to run)**

You may also utilize certain optional command line flags with initIOC:

Option | Description
------|------------
-h / --help | Prints help information
-i / --individual | Gives you a guided process for initializing IOCs one at a time
-g / --gui | Starts the GUI version of initIOC

**NOTE: as of v0.0.5, the GUI version of initIOC is available, along with the BINARIES_FLAT configuration setting being depracated.**

### GUI Usage

The Graphic User Interface (GUI) allows the user to run initIOCs in a simpler graphical environment. All configure options are displayed as text fields, along with a log and the IOC table. To add an IOC to the table,
you may enter it manually, or click the Add IOC button, and fill in the fields. You may save the configuration with the Save button, or execute the configuration with the Run button.

Additional settings are available in the menubar. From there you may toggle popups, toggle prompts asking if you wish to add another IOC, clear the log and the IOC table, and more.

### Currently supported drivers

initIOCs.py relies on [ioc-template](https://github.com/epicsNSLS2-deploy/ioc-template) to deploy its IOCs, and as a result, IOC support is limited to those drivers that have startup scripts located in `ioc-template`. Currently this includes:
* ADAndor3
* ADLambda
* ADUVC
* ADProsilica
* ADPilatus
* ADPerkinElmer
* ADMerlin
* ADSpinnaker
* ADPointGrey
* ADSimDetector
* ADURL